---
layout: post
title: "baby's first technical presentation at a meetup"
---

## d5

I gave a talk tonight on creating reusable charting components for d3. I called it **d5**. (I.e., don't duplicate data driven documents :grin:)

This was my first technical presentation to `real developers`. It was scary... until I started talking. Then, it was easy. All I had to do was keep yelling "JAVASCRIPT D3 BACKBONE DOM D3 GRUNT EMBER D3 REACT JAVASCRIPT!!!" and people would nod their heads in agreement. Who knew giving technical talks was so simple!

I've entertained the thought of posting a link to the slides (_hint: they are **somewhere** on this domain), but all the nerd jokes from the presentation would be woefully without context. Alas!

## talking about code is hard

In seriousness, the talk itself was a lesson in how difficult verbally explaining code is. 

I didn't prepare enough for the exposition of my codes. I saw a lot of blank stares. 

Why can't we developers just be able to comprehend spoken source code?! I've seen enough people liken code to poetry, and isn't poetry an aural practice? 

_Slame Codetry_. This should be a thing. 

## ~*~ Inspiration ~*~

I've tried to write reusable d3 code many, many times. And I've failed many, many times. Until one day (last Sunday), when I came across [an amazing article](http://bost.ocks.org/mike/chart/) on how to create reuasable charts. 

Guess who wrote it. Guess!

**Mike Bostock**. 

(He is the face behind d3. And a pretty smart guy.)

I took Bostock's article and its corresponding example (a reusable time-series chart), and I churned out a micro-library for the sake of having some code ready for the talk.

With Bostock's guidance, the code itself turned out pretty neatly.

Said mini-library (also dubbed d5) is on NPM as [d5-boots](https://www.npmjs.com/package/d5-boots), and it is on [my github](https://github.com/brettimus/d5-boots) under the same name.

It's what (I think) is a fairly straightforward `npm` style package. Uses `browserify` to wrap everything together.

I'm hoping to add some more charts to it in the coming months... time permitting. 

Even more so, I'm hoping _someone else_ decides to add to it. It's a great little exercise!