---
layout: post
title: "If you love something, put hearts all over it"
---

## ...and give it an awesome click effect

This week I pushed my first public-facing feature for [Switchboard](http://switchboardhq.com/), 
the place where I happen to work.

You might be wondering, "What is this feature?" And, in that case, _Thanks for asking!_

It is (quite literally) a bunch of hearts and (quite figuratively) my baby.

I pitched the idea in a redesign meeting, implemented it, and wrote the initial copy (later improved by a professional) to introduce it to our users- all in time for Valentine's Day! (D'awwh.)

### A Little Background

We wanted a way for our users to interact with posts on Switchboard even when they didn't have something to necessarily _say_ to the original poster. 

Since we, as active users of our own platform, often found ourselves thinking "I love this post!", a heart seemed only natural.

### _But does it animate, tho???_

The day before we launched the hearts, I posted in our main Slack channel asking for feedback.

Our designer, knowing my weakness for cool animations, half-jokingly posted a link to a handful of [awesome click effects](http://tympanus.net/codrops/2015/02/11/subtle-click-feedback-effects/) released on [codrops](http://tympanus.net/codrops/) earlier that day. (P.S., the codes are up on GitHub, [here](https://github.com/codrops/ClickEffects).)

### jelena 

We ended up using the `jelena` effect on our heart. (Side-note: Gleaned from the comments on the blog post that introduced the effects, it seemed as though every effect in the library has the name of a city from Yugoslavia.)
