---
layout: post
title: "If you love something, put hearts all over it"
---

## ...and give it an awesome click effect

This week I pushed my first public-facing feature for [Switchboard](http://switchboardhq.com/), the place where I happen to work.

You might be wondering, "What is this feature?" Great question!

It is (quite literally) a bunch of hearts and (quite figuratively) my baby.

I pitched the idea in a meeting, implemented it a week later, and wrote the initial copy (later improved by a more skilled pen) to introduce it to our users- all in time for Valentine's Day! (D'awwh.)

## A Little Background

Sorry. It still probably isn't clear what the hearts are.

Short story short, we wanted a way for our users to interact with posts on Switchboard even when they didn't necessarily have something to _say_ to the original poster. 

Since we, as active users of our own platform, often found ourselves thinking "I love this post!", a heart seemed only natural.

## _But does it animate, tho???_

The day before we launched the hearts, I posted in our company's main Slack channel (colloquially, _#kitchen_) asking for feedback.

Our designer, knowing my weakness for cool animations, half-jokingly replied with a link to a handful of [awesome click effects](http://tympanus.net/codrops/2015/02/11/subtle-click-feedback-effects/) released on [codrops](http://tympanus.net/codrops/) earlier that day.

These were some hot and fresh new animations, and I am all about the new, fresh hotness when it comes to cool CSS animations. As well as everything else on the internets.

Short story still short, I borrowed some of their codes off of [the Githubs](https://github.com/codrops/ClickEffects), and wrapped it into [an asset gem](https://github.com/brettimus/click_effects-rails) for our lovely little Rails app... all in time for lunch (which was tofu and rice, but that's besides the point)!

### jelena 

We ended up using the `jelena` effect on our heart. 

It's this wonderful, expanding concentric ring that emits from our heart icon when you click it. 

It. Is. Delightful.

(_Side-note: After reading the comments on the codrops blog post that introduced all of the effects, it seems that every effect is named after an ex-Yugoslavic city._)

I don't think my description does the animation any justice, though... so (shameless plug) if you are belong to a Switchboard, you should just meander on over to one of your communities and start hearting some posts!

:hearts:

-b
